Update grpc/aspnetcore with modern startup code (#27022)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/grpc/aspnetcore.md

For more information about choosing the right server for an ASP.NET Core app, see <xref:fundamentals/servers/index>.

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-6.0"

## Kestrel

> [Kestrel](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel) is a cross-platform web server for ASP.NET Core. Kestrel provides the best performance and memory utilization, but it doesn't have some of the advanced features in HTTP.sys such as port sharing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kestrel](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel) is a cross-platform web server for ASP.NET Core. Kestrel provides the optimal performance and memory utilization, but it doesn't have some of the advanced features in HTTP.sys such as port sharing.
```

Reviewer: We usually get called out on marketing phrases where we say something "provides the best" or "is the best".   However, it is key to your point.  I gave it a shot but feel free to skip my suggestion here.

In production, TLS must be explicitly configured. In the following `appsettings.json` example, an HTTP/2 endpoint secured with TLS is provided:

[!code-json[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/sample/appsettings.json?highlight=4)]

Alternatively, Kestrel endpoints can be configured in `Program.cs`:

[!code-csharp[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/sample-6/Program.cs?highlight=5&name=snippet)]

For more information on enabling TLS with Kestrel, see [Kestrel HTTPS endpoint configuration](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints#listenoptionsusehttps).

### Protocol negotiation

TLS is used for more than securing communication. The TLS [Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7301#section-3) handshake is used to negotiate the connection protocol between the client and the server when an endpoint supports multiple protocols. This negotiation determines whether the connection uses HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2.

> If an HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols (for example, `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2`) can't be used without TLS because there's no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an HTTP/2 endpoint is configured without TLS, the endpoint's [ListenOptions.Protocols](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints#listenoptionsprotocols) must be set to `HttpProtocols.Http2`. An endpoint with multiple protocols, such as `HttpProtocols.Http1AndHttp2`, can't be used without TLS because there's no negotiation. All connections to the unsecured endpoint default to HTTP/1.1, and gRPC calls fail.
```

For more information on enabling HTTP/2 and TLS with Kestrel, see [Kestrel endpoint configuration](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel/endpoints).

> [!NOTE]
> macOS doesn't support ASP.NET Core gRPC with TLS. Additional configuration is required to successfully run gRPC services on macOS. For more information, see [Unable to start ASP.NET Core gRPC app on macOS](xref:grpc/troubleshoot#unable-to-start-aspnet-core-grpc-app-on-macos).

## IIS

> [Internet Information Services (IIS)](xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index) is a flexible, secure and manageable Web Server for hosting web apps, including ASP.NET Core. .NET 5 and Windows 10 Build 20300.1000 or later are required to host gRPC services with IIS, which may require the use of a [Windows Insider](https://insider.windows.com) build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Internet Information Services (IIS)](xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index) is a flexible, secure and manageable Web Server for hosting web apps, including ASP.NET Core. .NET 5 or later and Windows 10 Build 20300.1000 or later are required to host gRPC services with IIS, which may require the use of a [Windows Insider](https://insider.windows.com) build.
```
